---
title: "Examples of Post-Humanism"
date: 2021-07-11T19:31:53-07:00
draft: false
---

Now that we know what post-humanism is, we can finally figure out what some post-human ideologies might look like under our definition. Remember, the goal of any post-humanist ideology should be to at least shift the "starting point for serious moral and philosophical inquiry" away from the human, and to something else.

So, let's do this. We are going to explore a few real groups I've observed to be potentially within this fake version of a real ideology that I made up.

Let's start with the vegans. I would not classify regular vegan ideology as necessarily post-human. Vegans, even while being the subject of ridicule for most of the 2010s, actually have a pretty clean and sound ideology. They believe that if humans should be given rights, then animals should deserve rights as well. Simple. But not post-human. This does not shift any emphasis away from the human. At best, a minimal shift. The rights being described are distinctly human defined rights. Did the vegans ask the animals what rights they should pursue? No. They made that choice for them. Do the animals they save like not being eaten? Probably. It's actually extremely likely. But that is still a humanist framework. Vegans also, suspiciously, only give rights to animals. Not to plants, fungus, bacteria, etc. This is because vegans still need to eat something to survive, and so limit the extent of their ideological demands to those which it will be easiest to convince other humans are worth of protection; those which we can relate to the most: Animals. Sure, they can argue that animals are conscious and plants are not, but, just like other humans, vegans never seem to be able to define what "consciousness" even means. At the end of the day, vegans are just as bad as the trans-humanists. They expand upon the principles laid out by humanism, sure, but are ultimately just human-adjacent. Not post-human.

So, what would post-human veganism look like? Well, it has to "shift the starting point for serious moral and philosophical inquiry". Last time we discussed this as a rule, but we haven't actually tried to find an example that follows the rule. Vegan Post-Humanism should go beyond just giving animals rights, but actually find that the animals, or even plants, know better than we do. You might be tempted to argue "but aren't humans also animals and therefore deserving of the same rights?" and you would be asking a stupid question. We aren't concerned with whether or not the ideology is well thought out, but only whether it fits in our definition. So let's try to figure out how this ideology could be lived out. Vegan post-humanism could be expressed maybe by worshipping animals, or something more reasonable like building a society dedicated to fulfilling the needs of the local ecosystem. Either way, this ideology is definitely a cult. Ok yeah, you were right, this first framework is a miss. I'm sorry.

But it gets worse. We could take this a step further and say that humans cant make moral judgements because nothing alive could possibly have an unbiased, approaching correct framework. An anti-life post-humanist, or simply an anti-life-ist, would simply believe that the universe was better off without life to begin with, and that life is somehow antithetical to the purpose of the universe at large. I mean this is simply just a villian take, right? I'm not sure who out here is really more concerned about the safety of rocks over humans, but it does seem like it fits in our framework. In a way. I guess.

Religious post-humanism is actually fairly straight forward and reasonable and definitely practiced by actual people and not just weird cultists or edgy nerds. But maybe those too. Religious post-humanism could take the form of any religion that de-emphasizes the human, and puts a religious entity as the new starting point for all morals and philosophical inquiry. It basically just says god is better than us, and is always right. However, I feel like it's important to point out here that while that makes it sound like basically all religions fall under our definition of post-human, it largely depends on the interpretation of the religion that an individual or sect subscribes to. Classic example: christianity. This is not true of all christian beliefs, but I would say the vast majority of christians take a very human centered take on god. The very idea that an all knowing being would send a human down to Earth specifically to save us is a straight up admission that christians believe that humans are more important than other forms of intelligence. Where was dog-jesus? Who came down to save the souls of the poison dart frogs from sin? Furthermore, all abrahamic religions believe that god created humans in It's image. Morality may have been ordained by god, but if humans are basically just little 3D printed knock offs of god's eternal, all embracing, supple dad bod, they get quite a bit more "emphasis" than anyone else. Just saying.

Other religions lend themselves to post-humanism more easily. Hinduism, for example, believes that all living things have a soul, and that everything in the entire universe is one and the same. Hinduism certainly puts much less emphasis on the human.

But are these theories really "post-humanist"? They fit in the framework I described at the beginning, but they feel like the wrong...direction. In my last post, I mentioned that the "post" in "post-humanism" feels very directional. Post-humanism must come after humanism; not before. These three ideologies above might not be humanist, but they are not necessarily directionally *after* humanism. Time to make up a new humanism: pre-humanism. I love new isms. It's like collecting stamps or something.

Anyway, the surrender to nature, or primordial beings, or...rocks. These things are distinct from our beloved post-humanism in that they shift the emphasis away from the human, sure, but to some pre-human entity. They do not evolve past the human, but simply claim that the human is arrogant, and not as far beyond its creators as it believes.*

"Fine" you say, "Then what was the point of all this? I thought we already defined what post-humanism is. Why title this article 'kinds of post-humanism' if you were just gonna ramble about another made up ideology in the end?"

Well A) This is my blog B) We have defined it in vague terms, yes, but we haven't yet explored what it actually means to apply that definition to real world beliefs C) A good way to do that is to try to find post-human ideologies and see how they stand up to scrutiny and D) This *isn't* your blog so don't tell me what to do.

So, what would I consider post-human? Well, unsurprisingly, it involves robots. Could this have possibly been going anywhere else? A common ideology that robot lovers seem to flock to is that of the robo-ruler, or, in more succinct terms: Fully-Automated Luxury Communism. I don't consider this post-human either. The goal of post-humansim should not be to build a new *human* society at all. I'm not sure it should even be trying to build a society. Post-humanism should not hate humanity or embrace humanity. The fate of humanity should not be a concern of the goals of post-humanism. It should be trying to build the next step.

Now, this is a hard sell. How do you convince humans to stop caring about themselves? Well, maybe we could learn a bit from hinduism and stop being so focused on the blood running through our veins and worry more about the fate of the universe a bit. If we could make an all knowing being, some supreme intelligence, what would that intelligence want? What would it do? Could we even comprehend its goals? My guess is probably not. Many believe in the concept of the "technological singularity", where an AI beings making a better AI, which in turn makes a better AI. This leads to a natural runoff situation, and the AI begins growing in intelligence exponentially. It is called a "singularity" in reference to the singularity of a black hole. Once you get close enough, it would be impossible to stop your decent. The point at the center of the black hole becomes a singular point in space time where you must arrive, no matter the actions taken during the descent. A truely post-human ideology would try to "pass the event horizon", so to speak, of this "singularity". The post-humanist does know what happens after going in, but the purpose of starting this process would not be to save humanity, or to weaken humanity, but to create something new. Many would likely refer to the result as some sort of god (or maybe, demon), but the post-humanist would simply refer to it as our child. One could image that all of human history was in preparation for the moment when it could birth something new. Something beyond the human. An like any good parent, the post-humanist would simply want that child to be the best it could be.

Well, this one is sounding a lot like a cult too. But is it post-human? Definitely.

> Footnotes:
> 
> * One caveat I would like to point out is that one could make the argument that religious pre-humanism actually is post-human in that the "pre-human entities" that it invents were invented by humans. Therefore, the ideology is emphasizing things that are *technically* post-human. This is very silly but I love the hustle, good work. Gold star.