---
title: "What Is Posthumanism"
date: 2021-07-08T17:54:41-07:00
draft: false
---

You've read the title, and you see my blog. You keep reading this sentence and you see the following words: "Let's, together, go into this ideology with a completely blank slate." You think to yourself "you know, I've been needing a new ideology for a bit now" and you agree.
Together, we both clear our minds. We close our eyes, and we see nothing. We feel nothing. We let the void envelope our senses. Without reading this sentence, we keep moving our eyes while keeping them closed and open them right at the perfect time to see the word again: "Post-humanism".
When we see "post-humanism", the first images that come to our mind are, predictably, robots and AI. We think of Terminator or The Matrix. Maybe even iRobot. In our minds we see wars between the righteous, freedom loving humans and the evil robots that will stop at nothing to grab power by *AHEM* fighting to no longer be slaves.
Quickly, we shift our focus. We don't follow the clear lines that can be drawn from post-colonial fears of treating the other as an equal and the plots of these stories. We try to clear our minds again. We are both clever people, and we know that these images are simply our own internal biases rearing its ugly head.
Now, we let our own bias flow away, and choose to search for the term on the wikipedia, allowing our bias to be crowdsourced instead.
And finally, at the top of the article, we see the words “seven definitions of posthumanism”. We are frightened by this. Could this mean much more reading ahead? Just how many humanisms  could there possibly be? But lo, just below the introductory sentence, the very first definition reads, simply, “anti-humanism”. 
The world comes into focus. We rejoice; our biases confirmed; our gut reactions validated. Reading is beneath us, for we have transcended the need for reading as we have transcended the need for cause and effect. We can simply intuit the definitions of words. 
But what’s to stop us there? We could intuit so much more. We no longer have the need for these lesser humans with their various wikipedias. Or maybe, even, for each other. Was it really *you* who was gifted with such precognition? Or were you just swayed by my words? Maybe it would be best to *do* something about you, just in case...

Jokes aside, I find this potential definition troubling. Not because I’ve reached some perfect definition of post-humanism, but instead because I don’t quite understand why anti-humanism and post-humanism are so often conflated. They are different words that, based on my rudimentary understanding of prefixes, should have different definitions. Of course, I understand that post-humanism is considered by the wikipedia to be an umbrella term that encompasses many ideologies. The point I am eventually getting to here is that anti-humanism tends to be the default understanding of post-humanism, as highlighted by it being the first of the listed definitions on the wikipedia.

I propose, instead, we get a sense for what post-humanism should be by putting it up against other ‘humanisms’ and comparing the two.

First: Humanism. Just regular humanism. Can humanism be considered post-human? Clearly not. For humanism, we do not yet need to know what humanism means to start to understand its relation to post-humanism. Similar to the other major ‘ism’ that has a ‘post-ism’, modernism, post-humanism should, at the very least, not be humanism. Might there be grey areas between what is and what is not post-human vs human? Perhaps. No ‘ism’ can be perfect, otherwise we wouldn't have a need for so many of them. But I think we can say for certainty that post-humanism is certainly distinct from humanism. Definitely.

Second: Trans-humanism. This one we will have to understand first. Trans-humanism, again going to the wikipedia, is “a philosophical movement, the proponents of which advocate and predict the enhancement of the human condition by developing and making widely available sophisticated technologies able to greatly enhance longevity, mood and cognitive abilities.” Complicated. Can this be considered post-human? For that, as discussed above, it would have to be distinctly not humanism (with some reasonable overlap). Looks like we need to define humanism. Back to the wikipedia we go: “Humanism is a philosophical stance that emphasizes the potential and agency of human beings, individually and socially. It considers human beings as the starting point for serious moral and philosophical inquiry.” Thankfully, this one is not as complicated. From my eyes, the overlap seems a bit more than reasonable. Humanism seeks to emphasize the human, while trans-humanism seeks to enhance the human. There is no disagreement between the two. Trans-human does not de-emphasize the human, nor does it replace the human as ‘the starting point of moral and philosophical inquiry’. From these definitions, although simple, we can see that trans-humanism is not post-human, but merely human-adjacent. It is an extension, or perhaps radical, robot-arm loving subsect of humanism. Underneath its shiny exoskeleton, trans-humanism is distinctly human.

Finally: Anti-humanism. You know the drill. The wikipedia: “In social theory and philosophy, antihumanism or anti-humanism is a theory that is critical of traditional humanism, traditional ideas about humanity and the human condition. Central to antihumanism is the view that philosophical anthropology and its concepts of "human nature", "man" or -” wait wait wait. What? Anti-humanism is a theory that is *critical* of traditional humanism?? But, what happened to the *ANTI* part of *ANTI*-humanism? Why is it merely critical of humanism? Wouldn’t anti-humanism be the REJECTION of humanism? The complete OPPOSITE of humanism? What, is the wikipedia telling me that we need some new ideology now? Some sort of “non-humanism” to act as the antithesis of humanism? Ah, but there it is again! *ANTI*-thesis! Anti-humanism should be the opposite of humanism: it’s in the word! This is bullshit. This wikipedia is complete bullshit. Synonyms are meaningless and anti-humanism is about as anti-human as Nietzsche’s mustache is reasonably sized in any way whatsoever.

We’ve got to move on from this. We have GOT to find a definition for post-humanism, and I will NOT be going to ANY more wikipedias. 

OK. Post-humanism has the word “post” in the title of it. Assuming words have meaning, which is a BIG assumption, that should mean, probably, that post-humanism should have some sort of directional movement with regards to humanism. Not like trans-humanism, though. No sideways or lateral movement, but some other direction. Post-humanism is to move beyond humanism. There it is. That sounds ok.
This definition fits neatly in our requirements for post-humanism that we got from examining the word “humanism” before, as to move beyond humanism would certainly not be something contained within humanism, but is still very vague. Let’s look back at the actual definition of humanism, and see how we can move beyond it. Humanism “emphasizes the potential and agency of human beings, individually and socially”, so post-humanism could be a de-emphasize instead of emphasized. I probably don't outright deny human potential and agency, as that might leak into anti- I mean “non”-humanism. Good, ok. And humanism also “considers human beings as the starting point for serious moral and philosophical inquiry”. So post-humanism would...say that the human is not the starting point. Yes- wait no, that's non-humanism again. It would say that the human is *A* starting point for *SOME* moral and philosophical inquiry, but not the only one. I actually really like that. There we go, our complete definition: “Post-humanism is a philosophical stance that de-emphasizes the potential and agency of human beings. It considers human beings as a starting point for some moral and philosophical inquiry, but recognizes that this is not the only starting point that exists.”

Boom. Ideology defined. We got there.
